Hey YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to
the channel. In this guide, I'll help
you get the highest frames and lowest
latency out of the finals with your PC.
Benchmarks are tested with these specs.
Do not expect identical results on your
hardware. That said, you can expect
similar scaling with my recommendations.
All right, default settings versus
optimized settings. Keep in mind,
default settings is basically everything
ultra, which is what the game set it to,
but we've turned any upscaling method
off. In 4K default, we're getting 155
fps and 14 milliseconds input lag. Going
to the optimized settings, we're getting
374 fps with 8.5 milliseconds input
lag. Default on 1440p, 275 fps and 10
mconds input lag. Going to the
optimization setting, 465 fps and 5.6
milliseconds input
lag. on 1080p default 375 fps at 10
milliseconds input lag. The optimization
settings 466 fps at 5 milliseconds input
lag. It's quite interesting to see. Even
with a 5090, this game is super GPU
heavy. Optimizing game settings in
config files can only do so much. Please
consider going through this video and
GitHub guide to cover the basic Windows
and BIOS optimizations. If hardware is
limiting your performance, please check
out my build guide for upgrades and PC
build suggestions. Make sure to update
the latest graphics drivers or at least
the recommended version from the game
developer. All game mentioned in driver
patch notes from the driver developer.
Nvidia app with certain settings turned
on will cause frame rate loss. Turn off
optimized games and creative
applications. Turn off automatically
optimized newly added games and apps.
Avoid using game filters and statistics.
As far as AMD drivers, I've not seen any
tests. Be cautious. Bam launcher should
have logging, game overlay, hardware
acceleration, cloud sync turned
off. Please do this for web browsers,
Spotify, Discord, or anything else open
while you play your games. Any
monitoring or RGB program causes frame
rate loss, even closed. This includes
ASUS Armory Crate, MSI, Gigabyte, ASRock
driver utilities. NZXT Cam, Corsair IQ,
Leon Lee, L Connect, and etc. Uninstall
if possible. Services and drivers for
these apps still run even if the apps
are closed. GPUZ, hardware info, MSI
After Burner, and etc. can cause frame
rate problems when logging GPU power.
Close these out when gaming or turn off
GPU power logging. If you'd like your
BIOS, game PC, Windows fresh, tuned, and
optimized, check out my PC service. All
links can be found in the description
below. Just check link tree. I tested
frame gen two times and four times. It
increases our input lag a lot. Please do
not use frame gen for a multiplayer
title. Reflex on versus off. Please
leave it on. It makes a really nice
reduction in input lag. Only plus boost
if you're CPU bound. Nobody's going to
be CPU bound
here. Resizable bar on boosted our frame
rate. Please don't disable it. If you do
want to test disabling it, you will have
to disable it in BIOS and also the game
profile in Nvidia Inspector as it is
forced on or at least it was with my
card and my driver. Please just leave it
on for this
game. Testing hyperthreading here off
completely. I did 1080p here just to
make it a little bit more CPUbound. What
was interesting is it actually did boost
our frames a little bit and our 1% lows,
but did lower our 0.1% lows. So, this
might be worth playing around with if
you have a high-end CPU. If most of you
guys have a mid to lower-end CPU, I
would definitely would not recommend
disabling hyperthreading or SMT. For
most of you, please leave it on. But for
power users that are willing to test
something, it might be worth turning
off. Unfortunately, because of the
antiche, it is impossible to do this
with an Infinity script. So, I had to
test with BIOS
here. DirectX11 launch option actually
boosts our frames ridiculously. And
unfortunately, it runs all fine in the
test range. If you go play a real match
with DirectX11, our frames actually
don't see an increase. And
unfortunately, we get massive stutters
in game. So, I think the game developers
never optimized this game for DirectX11.
So, I do not recommend even trying it.
Capping your frames can get a little
interesting. Some game engines behave
quite differently. I prefer either an
external cap or an internal cap or
sometimes River tuner can be a little
bit better. In this case, in-game cap is
best and usually in-game cap is always
best, but I've not always seen that for
every game engine, mind you. Now, keep
in mind us capping our frame rate when
we're GPU bound, even with reflex, is
actually lowering our latency here. I've
done a video on that, my input lag
video. You guys should go check that
out. But I'm seeing the same behavior
here just as I did with Marvel Rivals.
When you're GPU bound, even with Reflex,
let's say 95% GPU usage, sometimes
actually capping your frame rate to get
a value lower than that can lower our
latency. So yes, I could run around with
374 FPS in the test range here. But if I
cap my frames to 235, just as an
example, we're lowering our input lag
quite a little bit from 8.5 milliseconds
all the way to 7.4. or so keep that in
mind. You might actually be worth
capping your frame rate in this game to
lower your latency because most of you
are going to be
GPUbound. Now, this might change when
Reflex 2 comes out and it might do a
better job, but for now, it seems like
with Unreal Engine 5, you're better off
using an in-game cap to cap your frame
rate. Just stay well below, I would say
about stay around 90% GPU usage, you'
probably be okay. I'll show you how to
import the config two ways. the hard way
and the easy way. Head over to GitHub,
guys. Click on GitHub game configs. It
should be right here. Little bit of an
about. Use these configs as a starting
point to improve performance. Adjust
binding sensitivity, refresh rate, and
resolution to your preference. Settings
are subjective. So, these configs are
not definitive. High-end GPU owners can
afford to experiment with higher
graphics settings. Disclaimer, caution.
Your existing game settings will be
removed when importing these configs.
So, just keep that in mind. So, I'll
show you guys the hard way to import the
config. Go to the finals folder. Go to
the finals.zip. Click download raw file.
Go to your downloads folder. Right
click. Go extract all and press extract.
It should open this. These are the two
files we need to put in a certain place.
For most of you, right click the file.
Go to properties. Down the bottom. Click
unblock. Apply. Okay. And then the next
one. Click properties. Unblock. Apply.
Okay. So the files are unblocked. Now we
need to put these files in two places. I
want you to press Windows key R and type
app data then press
enter. I want you to go to
local
discovery
saved config Windows client game user
settings needs to go to game user
settings. So you could copy and paste
replace. Then the other file needs to go
to save
games. Copy paste. So that is a
difficult way to do it and I'd rather
you guys not. Also I'll let you guys
know if you're doing it the difficult
way and you want to reload your shaders,
you can delete these two
files. Now the smart option is scroll
down, use the IWR, pick copy code, copy,
type PowerShell in your start menu,
right click PowerShell, run as
administrator, Ctrl +V to paste, press
enter. I have a nice little list here.
At the moment, the finals is at number
six, so press number six and then press
enter. That will actually delete the
folder entirely and import the fresh
config, including deleting the shader
cache files, so your shaders will reload
when you boot the game.
You can press any key here. Exit this
here. Let's go boot up the game. Now, if
you ever see this cuz you've imported a
new config, just press
skip. It should reload shaders from
scratch. Okay, we're in the game. Go to
settings. Just go up
here. Now, if the config imported
properly, settings should sort of look
like
this. Now, keep in mind the config is
set to maximize frames. If you don't
mind have a bit of an FPS hit and you
want your game to look better, my advice
there would be go ahead and turn up your
textures. Now, if you're super GPU
limited, you don't have the fastest
card, and you think your CPU can spit
out more frames, consider running either
a lower
resolution or playing around with some
some of these resolution scaling
methods. Okay, Nvidia DLSS or AMD FSR,
they might be worth playing around with
if you don't mind the slightly visual or
I would say massively visual quality
loss, but it will boost your frames if
your CPU can spit out more. There's not
much else to talk about apart from the
graphics in here. It's all pretty
standard. Um, as far as the audio, I did
notice something pretty cool. Night mode
is very similar to loudness EQ in
Windows, so I've left that on. So,
hopefully this config will get you guys
out of trouble and help out a lot. If
any of you are curious on how to try the
DirectX11 launch option, even though I
really don't recommend it, in Steam,
right click Finals, go properties, in
launch options in general, click this,
type
DX11. That is it. You can go back in and
check that it's on. And if you want to
remove it, you can actually just delete
this here. I'll launch the game and show
you that it's actually working in
DirectX11.
As you guys can see here, I've launched
the game successfully and Rivet Shoot is
telling me that we are indeed in
DirectX11. But unfortunately, the game
runs horrible with it. So, I can't see
the developers fixing that anytime at
all. Hope you enjoyed the video, guys.
Take care and I'll see you guys real
soon. Bye.